---
title: "Introduction"
description:
  "The Leapa API is organized around **REST**. Our API has predictable
  resource-oriented URLs, accepts form-encoded request bodies, returns
  JSON-encoded responses, and uses standard HTTP response codes,
  authentication, and verbs."
---

## Security

Security is at the heart of everything we do at Leapa. If you have any
feedback, comments or questions about how security is done at Leapa, please
[let us know](https://leapa.co/support). <br/>

We have powerful fraud detection tools which detect and protect you from
fraudulent transactions. Leapa uses HSTS which is a web security protocol
mechanism that makes browsers interact with Leapa strictly through HTTPS. We
use strict user access protocols to protect your personal information and
financial data. We train our employees on industry standards and have
security standard operating procedures in place to strengthen their
knowledge in the matter.

## Authentication

The Leapa API uses API keys to authenticate requests. You can view and
manage your [API keys](https://leapa.co) in the [Leapa
Dashboard](https://leapa.co).

Your API keys carry many privileges, so be sure to keep them secure! Do not
share your secret API keys in publicly accessible areas such as GitHub,
client-side code, and so forth.

All API requests must be made over
[HTTPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTPS). Calls made over plain HTTP
will fail. API requests without authentication will also fail.

## Errors

Leapa uses conventional HTTP response codes to indicate the success or
failure of an API request. In general: Codes in the **2xx** range indicate
success. Codes in the **4xx** range indicate an error that failed given the
information provided (e.g., a required parameter was omitted, a charge
failed, etc.). Codes in the 5xx range indicate an error with Leapa's servers
(these are rare).

Some **4xx** errors that could be handled programmatically (e.g., a card is
declined) include an error code that briefly explains the error reported.

## Pagination

All top-level API resources have support for bulk fetches via "list" API
methods. For instance, you can list [charges](#tag/Charges), list
[customers](#tag/Customers), and list [invoices](#tag/Invoices). These list
API methods share a common structure, taking at least these two parameters:
**limit** and **cursor**.

Leapa utilizes cursor-based pagination via the limit and cursor parameters.
Both parameters take an existing object ID value and return objects in
reverse chronological order. The limit parameter returns objects listed
before the named object. The cursor parameter returns objects listed after
the named object.
